.\" grandfatherclock.6,v 1.0.0 2000-07-21
.\"
.\" grandfatherclock - toll the time accoustically
.\" Copyright (C) 2000 Dr. Robert J. Meier <robert.meier@computer.org>
.\"
.\" This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
.\" it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
.\" the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or
.\" (at your option) any later version.
.\"
.\" This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\" GNU General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
.\" along with this program; if not, write to the Free Software
.\" Foundation, Inc., 675 Mass Ave, Cambridge, MA 02139, USA.
.\"
.TH grandfatherclock 6 "2000-07-21" "1.0.0" "Accoustic clock"
.SH NAME
grandfatherclock \- report time accoustically
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B grandfatherclock
.RB [\| \-v \|]
.RB [\| \-f
.IR config-file \|]
.RB [\| \-q \|]
.RB [\| \-t
.IR HHMM \|]
.RB [\| \-c
.IR play-command \|]
.RB [\| \-a
.IR device \|]
.RB [\| \-g
.IR gain \|]
.RB [\| \-p
.IR toll-count \|]
.RB [\| \-p
.IR audio-dir \|]
.RB [\| \-1
.IR audio-file \|]
.RB [\| \-2
.IR audio-file \|]
.RB [\| \-3
.IR audio-file \|]
.RB [\| \-4
.IR audio-file \|]
.RB [\| \-h
.IR audio-file \|]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B grandfatherclock
plays audio files to sound the nearest hour or quarter as directed.
Command line arguments and an optional configuration file determine
the location of the audio files, and the commands to play them.
The file is usually executed every hour or quarter hour by a cron(1) job.
.SH OPTIONS
Options are set by reading an optional configuration file and then modifying
options set by command line arguments.  No more than one configuration file
is read.  The configuration file name is the first of: the one named in the
command line, the one named in the environment variable, the first readable
one named in the FILES section.
.TP
.B \-f file
Specify a configuration file to read.
.TP
.BR \-v
Report debugging information.
.TP
.BR \-q
Sound the nearest quarter hour.
.TP
.BR \-a\ device-address
.BR AUDIO_DEVICE
Write the audio files to this device.
.TP
.BR \-g\ gain-float
.BR PLAY_GAIN
Set an overall gain available as %g in the play command.
.TP
.BR \-p\ toll-count
.BR PAUSE_BETWEEN_TOLLS
If nonzero, after each count of tolls, pause for an additional second.
.TP
.BR \-c\ shell-command
.BR PLAY_COMMAND
This shell command plays the audio file %f with gain %g to device %a.
.TP
.BR \-d\ directory
.BR AUDIO_DIRECTORY
The relative addresses among the audio files are relative to this directory.
.TP
.BR \-1\ file
.BR Q1_FILE
Play this file at the first quarter of the hour.
.TP
.BR \-2\ file
.BR Q2_FILE
Play this file at the half hour.
.TP
.BR \-3\ file
.BR Q3_FILE
Play this file at the third quarter of the hour.
.TP
.BR \-4\ file
.BR Q4_FILE
Play this file at the hour.
.TP
.BR \-h\ file
.BR TOLL_FILE
Play this file for each toll.
.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
.B grandfatherclock\ \-?
Display the latest options, keys, and defaults.
.TP
.B grandfatherclock\ \-q
Play the nearest quarter hour and toll the hour if appropriate.
.TP
.B grandfatherclock\ \-p\ 4
Toll the hour with a pause between each 4 tolls.
.TP
.B crontab -e
(Add) 0,15,30,45 * * * * grandfatherclock -q
.br
Emulate a grandfather clock.
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP
.B GRANDFATHERCLOCKRC
If set, read the configuration from this file.  Command line arguments
override the settings in this file.
.SH FILES
.TP
.I $HOME/.grandfatherclockrc
Personal configuration file
.TP
.I /etc/grandfatherclock/grandfatherclockrc
System wide configuration file
.TP
.I /opt/grandfatherclock/etc/grandfatherclockrc
Package configuration file
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR crontab(1),
.BR crontab(5)
.SH COPYRIGHT
grandfatherclock is Copyright (C) 2000 by Dr. Robert J. Meier
.br
This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or
(at your option) any later version.
.br
This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
GNU General Public License for more details.
.br
You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
along with this program; if not, write to the Free Software
Foundation, Inc., 675 Mass Ave, Cambridge, MA 02139, USA.
