__END__

=head1 Guido Programmer's Documentation Index

The following documentation has been made available for programmers who are interested in working on the Guido project, or in writing macros and plugins for the Guido application.  

For user documentation that explains how to use the Guido application, see the Guido User Guide.  For information on using Perl itself, see your nearest bookstore for a good Perl book, or enter "perldoc perl" on the command line of any computer with Perl installed on it.

=over 4

=item * L<Guido DESIGN Document|DESIGN>

This is a high-level description of Guido's purpose and design tenets.  Not meant to be comprehensive, but a starting point for a programmer to get a feel for what Guido is for and how it tries to achieve its goals.

=item * L<How To Contribute|contribute>

A few tips on how to get started as a contributor to the Guido project.  You don't have to be a Perl programmer to do it!  You can provide web design, editorial, or even QA testing.  Did we mention that money is acceptable, too? ;-)

=item * L<Guido Wishlist/ToDo List|wishlist>

This is a list of things to expect in forthcoming releases of Guido, as well as things we hope to add someday.

=item * L<Guido Programmer's Style Manual|style>

This is meant to be a guidline for making the Guido coding style more consistent.  Current Guido code follows it to a limited extent, but work is being done to improve conformity.

=item * L<Guido Plugin Author's Guide|plugin_authors_guide>

This provides information on writing plugins for use in the Guido application.

=item * L<Module Documentation|lib::index>

This is the currently available documentation for the modules that make up the Guido application.  It is the embedded POD for each module which has been converted to HTML.

=item * L<Interface Documentation|interface::index>

This is documentation on the methods, properties, functions, etc. of the classes that make up the Guido application.  It is generated by creating comments in the pm files and using utilities from another SourceForge project called ModInfo.  See http://www.sf.net/projects/modinfo for more information.

=back
 