First, make sure that the Misterhouse user can read from your CDROM drive:
   chmod a+r /dev/cdrom

You'll probably have to add this line to /etc/rc.d/rc.local so it will run
after each reboot.

---------------------------------------------------------------------

First, you need to have a working 'cd-info' program that can be run by the
Misterhouse user.  There is no substitute for this program -- I tried to get
things to work without it but it was just too much work.  

The 'cd-info' program is part of the GNU lbicdio project
(http://www.gnu.org/software/libcdio/).

1) Download libcdio-0.70.tar.gz from http://ftp.gnu.org/gnu/libcdio/.

2) tar -xvzf libcdio-0.70.tar.gz

3) cd libcdio-0.70

4) ./configure

5) make

6) make install

7) chmod -R a+rX /usr/local

---------------------------------------------------------------------

Next, you must have a program that can read tracks off of your cd drive and
store them as WAV files.  I use cdparanoia which produces very good quality
audio but does hurt my system's performance while it is running.  That being
said, I haven't bothered to try anything else.

However, you can use any program you want, as long as it can rip a specific
track off of a CD and store it to a WAV file.  The program must exit with a
non-zero exit status upon failure.  If you get another reading program working
please email your 'mp3Rip_cdripper' setting from mh.ini to me at
kirk@kaybee.org.

I find that 'cdparanoia' is installed on most modern Linux distributions so
installation instructions are not provided here.

---------------------------------------------------------------------

Finally, you need to have an MP3 encoder, or actually any audio encoder as
long as you change the extension in the 'mp3Rip_default_mp3_name' setting in
mh.ini to indicate the output format of your encoder.

I use the lame MP3 encoder as it produces good audio quality, supports VBR,
and can add ID3 tags to the MP3 during the encoding process.  Its homepage is:
http://sourceforge.net/projects/lame/.

However, you can use any program you want, as long as it can take in a WAV
file and produce encoded audio in any format.  The program must exit with a
non-zero exit status upon failure.  If you get another compression program
working please email your 'mp3Rip_mp3_encoder' setting from mh.ini to me at
kirk@kaybee.org.

To install the 'lame' MP3 encoder:

1) Download the latest version from
http://sourceforge.net/project/showfiles.php?group_id=290.  In my example here
I'm using version 3.96.1.

2) tar -xvzf lame-3.96.1.tar.gz

3) cd lame-3.96.1

4) ./configure

5) make

6) make install

7) chmod -R a+rX /usr/local

